Welcome to the fifth video in this lecture series, How to Create a Targeted Resume Based on a job description.
But before that, I would advise you to create a global resume or a template resuming or a blanket resume
containing a list of all your achievements.
So far, every project that you worked on, what the goal was, who you worked with, what the results
were, and what your contribution was, and so forth, and what companies you did that.
And so this will be your single point of reference for all jobs going forward.
And when you find a job that you like, that you feel like you match, then you will edit the global
resume and create something that's shorter by removing all the unnecessary experiences and making it
relevant only to this job description.
Now, if you followed the previous video, then when you've found a job description, you would have
split the entire job description into a set of keywords, two sets of keywords, the soft skills and
the hard skills.
Now you're going to include all these in your resume, and I'm going to share my screen and show you
my resume with some confidential information removed, of course.
But we're going to take a look at the most efficient way to do this.
So it's always useful to have your name at the top left and your contact information.
You want them, obviously, to find find you.
You want them to know who you who they're talking to.
And that would be your name.
And if you have any professional designations, then you can include them along with your certifications
that could be relevant to the job that you're applying for.
And they want to know.
Most job most hiring managers will want to know where you're located.
So if you do not give a location, then you could be anywhere in the world and they wouldn't know.
And the pressing question for them becomes, Where are you?
How long would it take for you to get there, for a face to face interview and so forth?
If you want to save people the trouble, you want to save them as much trouble as possible and sort
of guide them along.
And it's always useful to provide your LinkedIn link.
Now, in my case, I also provide my personal website.
This is real soon, but you also want to include your LinkedIn profile.
Now, if you don't have a username for the profile and extension, then you can always go into LinkedIn.
Click on your profile and choose a name.
And that makes it easier for your hiring manager to remember your LinkedIn username.
Or your LinkedIn website.
Now below that, you want to identify what your market dominating position is, or, in other words,
what your unique selling proposition is.
What makes you so special?
Why should a hiring manager who has 200 other job applicants choose you?
Why should they give you the chance to interview what makes you special?
What makes you stand out from the other 200 people?
And that is what you want to establish through your headline.
For example, with me.
What makes me stand out?
What makes me qualified to be doing this course?
I am a body language coach.
I'm a business growth specialist.
I am a licensed professional engineer.
I've lived in five countries.
I speak seven languages.
I have 13 years of international experience with a consistent track record of helping jobseekers find
jobs.
Now, if I were applying to to a job posting myself, then I would.
I would show my track record of helping small and medium sized businesses or of successfully delivering
engineering projects.
Now, that said, let's move on to.
Not the headline.
This was the headline which we just talked about is this would be a little summary about yourself.
You can choose to include this or you can choose to include something about the job or the company itself
and why.
What makes you want to work for them?
So what kind of qualities do you have now?
If you're an entry level candidate, then it's likely that you don't have industrial experience, you
don't have field experience, which means your main focus becomes your combination of soft skills,
more your soft skills than your hard skills.
So then you want to show them that you're proactive, you're committed, and whatever qualities that
company values, you want to check out their website and find their core values.
What is it that drives that company and its employees?
Why are people proud to be working for a company like that?
And then you you should ideally include those qualities in your resume.
Now, it's not enough just putting those qualities here in the keyword section or even in the objectives.
What you want to show is how does this tie in with the rest of your experience?
For example, Board of Advisory Group Chair How and where have I done that?
This is just to cash the right.
My intention in writing these keywords is not to get through the applicant tracking software alone,
although that is one of the objectives.
Eight is not enough.
If you just get through the applicant tracking software, you want to tie it in with your experience.
So.
If if someone is looking for Six Sigma implementation, this alone will get me through the applicant
tracking software because that is a key word or a key phrase in itself.
But where have I done that before?
Where have I used it?
Then they can take a look at this.
And you see Six Sigma here.
And they take a look at what I've done engineering, consulting and Six Sigma OC.
Where else may I have done it?
They see that I have driven.
Savings of more than 1.4 million CAD in a two year period.
And this becomes my Six Sigma project because it's creating cost savings of more than $1,000,000 in
a two year period.
Now, that said, every single company.
Deserves a little write up about them.
So you have to show the interviewer you have you're trying to save them as much trouble as possible.
So you start with your headline and show what makes you special.
And what qualities do you bring to the company and to the job?
Then you talk about your specific experiences.
And for each experience, talk about the company, maybe include one line about the company, what they
do.
And what your roles and responsibilities were and make it as data driven as possible, provide as much
detail as possible.
What what was the goal of your task?
What did you start with?
Did you work with different teams?
If a company if a job description that you've looked at calls for.
Teamwork.
Team oriented.
Working.
Then you want some of your experiences to reflect that teamwork work.
So choose a project that shows that you work collaboratively with other people.
Show what the end result was and what your individual contribution was, because you do not want to
put yourself in a situation where you worked in a team.
But.
You didn't do much work.
You want to show some kind of contribution.
You don't want to rest on other people's shoulders.
And that's not a good sign for for a hiring manager.
So if you want to impress your hiring manager, you want to show what your significant individual contribution
was while working.
And do this for every single job and every single project that you worked on.
And then top it off.
With your education and perhaps a list of all the softwares that you know and talk about community involvement
as well.
When you talk about community involvement, this shows that you are not just someone who takes home
a paycheck.
You want to be someone who's actually invested in improving the lives of others.
I know that.
That's what drives me.
And a lot of my mentorship, a lot of the free webinars that I conduct are aimed towards community involvement
and improving the lives of others.
So the more you do this, the more visibility you get, the more you can influence the lives of people
in a positive way.
So that's what people want to see, especially in a company that's driven, a company that focuses on
experience and education and training, continuous improvement, things like that.
So that said.
Keep it simple.
Use a lot of keywords.
Use as many keywords as possible from your job description for which you're applying for and don't have.
Have a blanket address but don't use it to apply to jobs.
Tailor your resume for every single job description and.
Your resume has to have a good flow.
So your keywords key skills.
Need to be tied to the job description and then your experience need to be tied to the keywords.
And that's how you create a resume and match it to the job description.
Thank you very much.
I hope I was able to add value through this and I look forward to the next video.